# CrisisConnect

For the past 5 or more years, Montana has had one of, if not the highest suicide rate and highest adolescent suicide rate in the United States. The tension surrounding mental health crises is palpable. I have watched how it can affect my peers. In recent years, teens have been encouraged to get help through hotlines. However, it may be hard to identify which hotline to use in a crisis. There are tens of useful phone numbers to call that can help teens in all kinds of crises. I wanted to make something useful and simple that helps those going through rough times identify what their next step is in one of these emotional moments. 

CrisisConnect chats with a user going through a crisis, and analyzes their responses to recommend hotlines to call. It starts with a general question about the user’s situation and feelings. If CrisisConnect cannot find an adequate hotline for the user, it will then ask yes or no questions. CrisisConnect responds to certain words such as "help", "abuse", and “suicide” at any time during the chat, and will immediately recommend emergency contacts if these words are entered. The satisfaction of the user is also taken into account after every hotline recommendation. If the user is not satisfied with their outcome, they have the ability to continue to chat. CrisisConnect also offers coping mechanisms for users, so if it cannot find a helpline to assign, the user will not be left without support. A choice between hotline help and coping mechanisms is offered from the start as well. When it comes to coping mechanisms, CrisisConnect provides the user with generic coping mechanisms, as well as ones based on user interests such as writing or drawing.

